So we're gonna talk about ours and theirs.
You've heard me say this
multiple times now.
Ours is theirs and
theirs is ours with rebase,
whereas it's the opposite for merge.
So long as you have one of those correct,
you'll get the other one correct,
or you can just remember how rebase works.
So sometimes you just wanna be
able to pick just one side.
You don't wanna have to go through and
manually resolve each one of the things.
You just wanna say, hey,
change A is better than change B,
I just want change A, right?
By the way, there's a very well known
Netflix person named Some Coding Guy, and
he even says that ours and
theirs is the worst thing in Git.
So it confuses everybody.
So if you feel kinda confused about it,
don't worry, you're not the only one that
I thinks it's completely ridiculous and
also makes perfect sense, but ridiculous.
All right, so when I say ours, I do mean
our current branch, when I say theirs,
I do mean the incoming branch.
So if you want to select a change,
you can just simply do git checkout --ours
path to the file, and it will just
select the entire file's change set.
And if you do theirs, it will select
the entire file change set for
just theirs, and it's only for that file.
So let's do it again,
let's make another conflict.
We'll do A + 7 in hello, A + 8 in remote,
and let's do a merge from
upstream to resolve it, and
let's choose ours with a merge.
So I'll go to hello,
then the README, A + 7,
A + 7, do it again here, A.
There we go,
I've done both to hello and to remote.
Now all I need to do is just simply
merge those two together and
then we'll get the conflict, so git pull.
Notice that I'm using a merge,
I'm not rebasing.
Awesome, I have the conflict,
now I'm just gonna simply go
git checkout --ours README.
So if I do that and I go git status,
you'll see it says both modified
cuz we haven't added it yet.
If I cat the README, you'll see it's
just our change, it did it for us.
That also means if the remote
had other changes that
weren't conflicted, what is it gonna do?
>> Still pull them in.
>> It's gonna pull in everything on ours.
So just things to remember,
choosing hours,
you're choosing this experience
versus that experience.
So just remember that,
it's a full deal here.
So sometimes that's why you wanna
kinda go through hand by hand,
select what you want.
There we go, pretty straightforward.
We checked out ours, now all we
have to do is just simply merge it.
So I'll just simply go git, add this,
git commit, let's see, merged.
Why not?
These commit messages are just
getting worse as the day goes on,
which really represents true using Git.
This might be the most true version of
using Git, is where your commit messages
just disproportionately
get worse as time goes on.
It's just the worst, right?
All right, so
we can do a quick little log.
I can go git log --oneline --graph, and
we'll just do the last ten commits.
And you can see right here,
you can see the A + 7 over here, but
then we just merged in A8,
with A + 7, we get the merge.
So there we go.
I mean, I always go back and forth in
some sense of whether I do like rebase or
whether I do like merge.
In some sense, I do like this
piece of history right here,
which is I get to see that these two
things happened, and we did make a proper
change to the code in such a way, and
this is the result of the conflict.
I do like that experience.
I think it is a little bit more sensible
for me to understand how a bug could form.
Cuz if you have a conflict and you use
rebase, it kind of erases the idea that
you even had a conflict and
it just looks like a linear history.
It's kinda like you choose your own
adventure, I always go back and
forth, I can convince myself either
way to love either one, right?
As for whatever reason,
I don't seem to have a solid,
this is the only way to do it here.
It's just like, well, you convinced me,
tomorrow I'll be all about rebase,
today I might be all about merge for
conflicts.
The life I live as an engineer,
it depends, just continuously and
ad infinitum, for
all of the rest of my life.
Anyways, good reminder,
you don't wanna mix merge and rebase,
you start getting things like commit
merges, and they start getting,
it's very hard to keep
your tree kinda straight.
So you really do wanna try to stick
with one strategy and at least make sure
they're in sync, and then you can
kind of diverge once they're in sync.
But I tend to try to never mix them both
cuz then you just start getting merged
commits constantly, and just nothing
feels good, it's just trouble after that.
So let's merge everything up and
make sure that our hello-git and
remote-git are in the exact same position.
And then we'll start doing the next part,
okay?
So git push origin, I don't know why
I'm saying the whole thing here.
Again, got owned again,
git checkout bar, go back, push it up,
go back, git checkout trunks,
I don't goof that up.
All right, phew, we're in.
By the way, if you guys are wondering
how in the world am I switching between
projects so dang fast?
This is called tmux, I have an entire
course on Frontend Masters all about how
to use your system well,
includes Vim and all the good stuff.
If you don't use Vim, that's okay.
Vim's awesome, it makes me entertained,
I know most people don't like it, but hey,
I think it's great.
All right, so
we're gonna do the exact same thing again,
we're gonna create another conflict
with this A + 9, A +10, add hashtag,
by the way, forgot to say that.
There we go, SEC rules now,
wait, FEC, which one is it?
FCC?
Anyways, one of the governmental agencies
you have to say add after things,
I don't know.
Anyways, all right, so let's do A + 9
in hello, let's do A + 10 in remote,
don't laugh at me.
[LAUGH] And do those two, and
then let's do a rebase, and
then let's try to select ours.
Let's just really drive home the point
that ours is theirs and theirs is ours,
even though we should already be there,
but let's just do it anyways.
So I'll go back to hello, I'll open
up README, set it to 9, git add this.
Oops, there's no file name there,
git commit,
A + 9, switch over here, then README, 10.
Awesome, okay, so
now if I git pull --rebase,
we have the conflict, git checkout --ours.
Remember, we're doing
ours here on purpose.
If we do that, and then we cut out README,
you'll see right here,
we selected hello-git.
We did not select ours,
cuz we selected hours, which is not ours.
Okay, good, good.
I just wanna really make sure we really
are fully on the same page here,
it's just such a goofy part.
So there we go, so that means if you're
gonna do this, we need to select theirs.
So I believe I do a little
change right here.
We do this whole ours is theirs business.
Okay, so let's just check out and
use theirs instead of ours.
I'll go git checkout --theirs README.
There we go.
So now when I cap that one out,
you'll see it's our change, awesome.
git add it, git rebase --continue.
Fantastic, we've now done it.
We've selected ours, and
we have our change in.